OSDOCS#4562: Add common terms in monitoring book (#52810)
openshift/openshift-docs: modules/monitoring-common-terms.adoc

// Module included in the following assemblies:
//
// * monitoring/monitoring-overview.adoc

:_content-type: REFERENCE
[id="openshift-monitoring-common-terms_{context}"]
= Common terms

This glossary defines common terms that are used in the architecture content. These terms help you understand {product-title} architecture effectively.

> alerts::

Reviewer: no explanation for alerts

Alertmanager::
The Alertmanager service handles alerts received from Prometheus. Alertmanager is also responsible for sending the alerts to external notification systems.

Alerting rules::
Alerting rules contain a set of conditions that outline a particular state within a cluster. Alerts are triggered when those conditions are true. An alerting rule can be assigned a severity that defines how the alerts are routed.

Cluster Monitoring Operator::

> The Cluster Monitoring Operator (CMO) is a central component of the monitoring stack. It deploys and manages Prometheus instances, the Thanos Querier, the Telemeter Client, and metrics targets and ensures that they are up to date. The CMO is deployed by the Cluster Version Operator (CVO).

Reviewer 2: The Cluster Monitoring Operator (CMO) is a central component of the monitoring stack. It deploys and manages Prometheus Operator which manages Prometheus and Alert manager, the Thanos Querier, the Telemeter Client, and Prometheus Adapter and ensures that they are up to date.

CoreDNS::

config map::
A config map provides a way to inject configuration data into pods. You can reference the data stored in a config map in a volume of type `ConfigMap`. Applications running in a pod can use this data.

Container::
It is a lightweight and executable image that comprises software and all its dependencies. Containers virtualize the operating system, as a result, you can run containers anywhere from a data center to a public or private cloud to even a developer’s laptop.

custom resource (CR)::
A CR is extension of the Kubernetes API. You can create custom resources.

Elasticsearch::

etcd::

Federation endpoint::

Fluentd::

HAProxy::

Image registry::

Kubelets::
Runs on nodes and reads the container manifests. Ensures that the defined containers have started and are running.

Kubernetes API server::

Kubernetes controller manager::
Kubernetes controller manager governs the state of the cluster.

Kubernetes scheduler::
Kubernetes scheduler allocates pods to nodes.

labels::
You can use labels, which are key-value pairs, to organise and select subsets of objects, such as a pod.

Metering::

metrics::

metric target::

monitoring dashboards::

> monitoring stack::

Reviewer: no explanation for
`metrics`, `metric target:`, `monitoring dashboards`, `monitoring stack`

> monitoring stack::

Reviewer: no explanation for
metrics, metric target:, monitoring dashboards, monitoring stack

A worker machine in the {product-title} cluster. A node is either a virtual machine (VM) or a physical machine.

NVIDIA GPU administration dashboard::

Operator::
The preferred method of packaging, deploying, and managing a Kubernetes application in an {product-title} cluster. An Operator takes human operational knowledge and encodes it into software that is packaged and shared with customers.

{product-title} API server::

{product-title} Controller Manager::

Operator Lifecycle Manager (OLM)::

Persistent storage::
Stores the data even after the device is shut down. Kubernetes uses persistent volumes to store the application data

Persistent volume claim (PVC)::
You can use a PVC to mount a PersistentVolume into a Pod. You can access the storage without knowing the details of the cloud environment.

pod::
The pod is the smallest logical unit in Kubernetes. A pod contains one or more containers to run in a worker node.

project::

Prometheus::
Prometheus is the monitoring system on which the OpenShift Container Platform monitoring stack is based. Prometheus is a time-series database and a rule evaluation engine for metrics. Prometheus sends alerts to Alertmanager for processing.

> Prometheus adapter::

Reviewer: see description for `Prometheus adapter`
https://docs.openshift.com/container-platform/4.11/monitoring/monitoring-overview.html#default-monitoring-components_monitoring-overview

Author: Addressed

Reviewer 2: The Prometheus Adapter (PA in the preceding diagram) translates Kubernetes node and pod queries for use in Prometheus. The resource metrics that are translated include CPU and memory utilization metrics. The Prometheus Adapter exposes the cluster resource metrics API for horizontal pod autoscaling.

Author: Addressed

Prometheus Operator::
The Prometheus Operator (PO) in the openshift-monitoring project creates, configures, and manages platform Prometheus instances and Alertmanager instances. It also automatically generates monitoring target configurations based on Kubernetes label queries.

routing::

Silences::
A silence can be applied to an alert to prevent notifications from being sent when the conditions for an alert are true. You can mute an alert after the initial notification, while you work on resolving the underlying issue.

storage::
{product-title} supports many types of storage, both for on-premise and cloud providers. You can manage container storage for persistent and non-persistent data in an {product-title} cluster.

> Thanos Ruler::

Reviewer: no explanation for `Thanos Ruler`

> Thanos Ruler::

Reviewer 2: The Thanos Ruler is a rule evaluation engine for Prometheus that is deployed as a separate process. In OpenShift Container Platform, Thanos Ruler provides rule and alerting evaluation for the monitoring of user-defined projects.

Author: Addressed

// Module included in the following assemblies:
//
// * monitoring/monitoring-overview.adoc

:_content-type: REFERENCE
[id="openshift-monitoring-common-terms_{context}"]
= Common terms

> This glossary defines common terms that are used in the architecture content. These terms help you understand {product-title} architecture effectively.

Author: acked

Alertmanager::

> The Alertmanager service handles alerts received from Prometheus. Alertmanager is also responsible for sending the alerts to external notification systems.

Reviewer: The Alertmanager service handles alerts received from Prometheus
->
The Alertmanager handles alerts received from Prometheus

Author: Addressed

Alerting rules::
Alerting rules contain a set of conditions that outline a particular state within a cluster. Alerts are triggered when those conditions are true. An alerting rule can be assigned a severity that defines how the alerts are routed.

Cluster Monitoring Operator::

> The Cluster Monitoring Operator (CMO) is a central component of the monitoring stack. It deploys and manages Prometheus instances, the Thanos Querier, the Telemeter Client, and metrics targets and ensures that they are up to date. The CMO is deployed by the Cluster Version Operator (CVO).

Author: acked

Cluster Version Operator::

> The Cluster Version Operator (CVO) manages the lifecycle of cluster Operators, many of which are installed in OpenShift Container Platform by default.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
The Cluster Version Operator (CVO) manages the lifecycle of cluster Operators, many of which are installed in {product-title} by default.
```

Author: Addressed

config map::
A config map provides a way to inject configuration data into pods. You can reference the data stored in a config map in a volume of type `ConfigMap`. Applications running in a pod can use this data.

Container::

> It is a lightweight and executable image that comprises software and all its dependencies. Containers virtualize the operating system, as a result, you can run containers anywhere from a data center to a public or private cloud to even a developer’s laptop.

Author: acked

custom resource (CR)::

> A CR is extension of the Kubernetes API. You can create custom resources.

Author: acked

etcd::

> etcd is the key-value store for OpenShift Container Platform, which stores the state of all resource objects.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
etcd is the key-value store for {product-title}, which stores the state of all resource objects.
```

Author: acked

Fluentd::
Fluentd gathers logs from nodes and feeds them to Elasticsearch.

Kubelets::
Runs on nodes and reads the container manifests. Ensures that the defined containers have started and are running.

Kubernetes API server::
Kubernetes API server validates and configures data for the API objects.

Kubernetes controller manager::
Kubernetes controller manager governs the state of the cluster.

Kubernetes scheduler::
Kubernetes scheduler allocates pods to nodes.

labels::

> You can use labels, which are key-value pairs, to organise and select subsets of objects, such as a pod.

Author: acked

Metering::
Metering is a general purpose data analysis tool that enables you to write reports to process data from different data sources.

node::
A worker machine in the {product-title} cluster. A node is either a virtual machine (VM) or a physical machine.

Operator::
The preferred method of packaging, deploying, and managing a Kubernetes application in an {product-title} cluster. An Operator takes human operational knowledge and encodes it into software that is packaged and shared with customers.

Operator Lifecycle Manager (OLM)::

> OLM helps you to install, update, and manage the lifecycle of Kubernetes native applications. OLM is an open source toolkit designed to manage Operators in an effective, automated, and scalable way.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
OLM helps you install, update, and manage the lifecycle of Kubernetes native applications. OLM is an open source toolkit designed to manage Operators in an effective, automated, and scalable way.
```

Author: acked

Persistent storage::

> Stores the data even after the device is shut down. Kubernetes uses persistent volumes to store the application data

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
Stores the data even after the device is shut down. Kubernetes uses persistent volumes to store the application data.
```

Author: acked

Persistent volume claim (PVC)::
You can use a PVC to mount a PersistentVolume into a Pod. You can access the storage without knowing the details of the cloud environment.

pod::

> The pod is the smallest logical unit in Kubernetes. A pod contains one or more containers to run in a worker node.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
A pod is the smallest logical unit in Kubernetes. A pod contains one or more containers to run in a worker node.
```

Reviewer 3: If you wanted to avoid the redundancy in "contains" and "containers", you could re-write the second sentence to be: A pod is comprised of one or more containers to run in a worker node.

Author: acked

Prometheus::

> Prometheus is the monitoring system on which the OpenShift Container Platform monitoring stack is based. Prometheus is a time-series database and a rule evaluation engine for metrics. Prometheus sends alerts to Alertmanager for processing.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
Prometheus is the monitoring system on which the {product-title} monitoring stack is based. Prometheus is a time-series database and a rule evaluation engine for metrics. Prometheus sends alerts to Alertmanager for processing.
```

Author: acked

Prometheus adapter::

> The Prometheus Adapter translates Kubernetes node and pod queries for use in Prometheus. The resource metrics that are translated include CPU and memory utilization metrics. The Prometheus Adapter exposes the cluster resource metrics API for horizontal pod autoscaling.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
The Prometheus Adapter translates Kubernetes node and pod queries for use in Prometheus. The resource metrics that are translated include CPU and memory utilization. The Prometheus Adapter exposes the cluster resource metrics API for horizontal pod autoscaling.
```

Author: acked

Prometheus Operator::

> The Prometheus Operator (PO) in the `openshift-monitoring` project creates, configures, and manages platform Prometheus instances and Alertmanager instances. It also automatically generates monitoring target configurations based on Kubernetes label queries.

Reviewer 3: If Prometheus and Altermanager are both platforms, then you could omit one of the "instances".

Author: acked

Silences::
A silence can be applied to an alert to prevent notifications from being sent when the conditions for an alert are true. You can mute an alert after the initial notification, while you work on resolving the underlying issue.

storage::
{product-title} supports many types of storage, both for on-premise and cloud providers. You can manage container storage for persistent and non-persistent data in an {product-title} cluster.

Thanos Ruler::

> The Thanos Ruler is a rule evaluation engine for Prometheus that is deployed as a separate process. In OpenShift Container Platform, Thanos Ruler provides rule and alerting evaluation for the monitoring of user-defined projects.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
The Thanos Ruler is a rule evaluation engine for Prometheus that is deployed as a separate process. In {product-title}, Thanos Ruler provides rule and alerting evaluation for the monitoring of user-defined projects.
```

Author: acked
